## Introductory SQL questions, but I am assuming that you know the basic commands such as SELECT, WHERE, HAVING, NOT, LIKE, IN etc.

### 1. Find the maximum/ highest value according to each group in a table.
Let's say you have a table called EMP with these columns: EMPLOYEE ID, CITY NAME, SALARY

To find the highest salary of employee in each city. We can use `MAX` and `GROUP BY`. So, it'd look something like this:

```
SELECT CITY, MAX(SALARY) FROM EMP
GROUP BY CITY;
```

### 2. Same as (1), but we want to find the columns/ IDs that have the highest value. 

Let's say we want to show the dates that have the most unique customers, as well as the total order value registered on those days. And the table has date, customer_id

1. What we can do is to create a CTE that counts the num. of customers on each day.
2. Extract those that ahs the highest value using  `WHERE`, `IN` and `MAX`.

```
WITH T1 AS(
SELECT orderdate, COUNT(DISTINCT customerid) AS counts FROM orders
GROUP BY orderdate
ORDER BY counts DESC)

SELECT * FROM T1 WHERE counts IN 
(SELECT MAX(counts) FROM T1
);
```
### 3. The `CREATE VIEW` command.
In SQL, a view is a virtual table based on the result-set of an SQL statement. A view contains rows and columns, just like a real table. The fields in a view are fields from one or more real tables in the database.

So why do we use view? 
1. Restricting data access – Views provide an additional level of table security by restricting access to a predetermined set of rows and columns of a table.
2. Hiding data complexity – A view can hide the complexity that exists in a multiple table join.
3. Rename Columns – Views can also be used to rename the columns without affecting the base tables provided the number of columns in view must match the number of columns specified in select statement. Thus, renaming helps to to hide the names of the columns of the base tables.

More info can be found [here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sql-views/)

### 4. `FLOOR` and `CEILING` command.
Commonly used to round down and round up numbers

### 5. `inet` in PostgreSQL and `INET_ATON` in MySQL
Takes the dotted-quad representation of an IPv4 address as a string and returns the numeric value of the given IP address in form of an integer. This can be used to calculate the differences between 2 IP addresses

### 6. JOINS
There are left join, right join, self join, multiple joins

[Practice Question](https://platform.stratascratch.com/coding/10300-premium-vs-freemium?code_type=1)

```
WITH data AS (
select df.date, SUM(CASE WHEN ad.paying_customer = 'yes' THEN df.downloads END) AS paying,
                SUM(CASE WHEN ad.paying_customer = 'no' THEN df.downloads END) AS non_paying

from ms_acc_dimension ad 
INNER JOIN ms_user_dimension ud ON ad.acc_id = ud.acc_id
INNER JOIN ms_download_facts df ON ud.user_id = df.user_id
GROUP BY df.date
ORDER BY df.date
)

SELECT * FROM data
WHERE non_paying > paying
```

For self joins, usually this is when we want to find some pattern/ comparison in a single table. We can join using ON "=" or "<>" depending on what we're trying to achieve

[Question Page](https://platform.stratascratch.com/coding/10011-find-all-number-pairs-whose-first-number-is-smaller-than-the-second-one-and-the-product-of-two-numbers-is-larger-than-11?code_type=1)

```
select DISTINCT a.number, b.number from transportation_numbers a JOIN transportation_numbers b
ON a.index <> b.index
WHERE a.number < b.number AND a.number * b.number > 11;
```
