### 1. Filtering results
#### To filter results in SQL, there are 3 main functions that can be used, OVER, PARTITION BY, and ROWS
* OVER: Let's say we want to select names, and heights. It'd look something like, `SELECT` name, heights `OVER` ( `ORDER BY` name)
* PARTITION BY: Allows you to further partition the data with the `OVER` command preceding, `SELECT` name, heights `OVER` ( `PARTITION BY` city)
* ROWS: Allows you to only consider preceding and/or following rows while quering data. `SELECT` name, heights, `min`(heights) `OVER` (`ORDER BY` name ROWS between 1 preceding and 1 following)

### 2. Moving average
#### 'Moving average' questions may seem easy, but it could be tough to execute, the important thing is to know that we have to use the `OVER` function.

Let's say we have a table with the orders, and the date order was being placed, and we want to know the 7-day moving average number of orders.

First thing, let's get number of orders per day. and make it a CTE


```WITH T1 AS (`SELECT` orderdate, COUNT(1), num_orders_per_day FROM orders
GROUP BY orderdate
ORDER BY 1)```

Once, we have this, we can then use `OVER` to find out the moving average

``SELECT AVG(num_orders_per_day) OVER (ORDER BY orderdate ROWS BETWEEN 6 PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW)
FROM T1``

The reason we use ROWS BETWEEN 6 PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW is so that we can always get the moving average of 7 days, i.e. 1 week. It can be adjsuted according to which moving 
average that we're looking at


### 3. Cumulative Sum
Let's say we have a dataset with customer_id and orderdate, and we want to find out when did each customer reach their 5th order, in this case we can imagine that what we want to have is something like 
```
customer_id | cumulative_purchases | orderdate
      1                 1            01/01/2021
      1                 2            01/02/2021
      1                 3            01/03/2021
      1                 4            01/04/2021
      1                 5            01/05/2021
```

If we have this info, we could just select "01/05/2021" as the answer for customer with id=1.

First step, create a CTE:

```
WITH T1 AS(
SELECT customerid, orderdate, ROW_NUMBER() OVER
(PARTITION BY customerid
ORDER BY orderdate ASC) AS cumulative_total_order
FROM ORDERS
GROUP BY customerid, orderdate
ORDER BY customerid, orderdate ASC)
```

Once we have the CTE, we can then:

```
SELECT cus.companyname, T1.orderdate FROM T1
JOIN customers cus ON T1.customerid = cus.customerid
WHERE cumulative_total_order = 5;
```

### 4. Regex in SQL
Let's say if we want to query the list of CITY names starting with vowels (i.e., a, e, i, o, or u) from STATION. Your result cannot contain duplicates.

In MYSQL, we can use `RLIKE`, if we want all queries that start with a than you can use RLIKE '^a', More info can be found [here](https://www.w3resource.com/mysql/string-functions/mysql-rlike-function.php) or [here](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/regexp.html#operator_regexp) So in this case, we would need to use ^, and since we are looking at vowels, we can use ^'[aeiouAEIOU]'

What if, you want it to begin and end with vowels, then we use  `.*[aeiouAEIOU]$`

```
SELECT DISTINCT city
FROM   station
WHERE  city RLIKE '^[aeiouAEIOU]'
```

Alternatively, we can also use `SUBSTR` in MySQL. How it works is, assuming that we have the same questions, i.e. find CITY names starting with vowels.

We can use `SUBSTR(string, start, length)`. So in this case:

```
SELECT DISTINCY city
FROM station
WHERE SUBSTR(city, 1, 1) IN ('A', 'E', 'I', 'O', 'U')
```

